# qnrwp_a

Bare-bones Wordpress theme for web developers, intended as a starting point for custom themes for clients.

The theme incorporates Quicknr Interface widgets as custom WP Widgets and Shortcodes. The QI README.md file is in the "res" folder containing the QI files.

This theme will be developed rapidly. No releases will be packaged - the latest commit is the latest version. Once you have adapted this theme to your requirements, you will no longer want to refer to this original, an update would not make sense. This theme is expected to be customized beyond what would usually be done with a child theme.

## Aspects of this theme:

* No effort made to translate the output, English only.
* Number of files kept to a minimum - all Posts, Pages, archives and search results handled by index.php. No page templates used.
* Dashboard is not cluttered with theme settings. All custom widgets are defined in Pages and subpages or implemented with shortcodes.
* For non-admin users, Dashboard allows only creation and editing of Posts, Pages and Media, the rest of the interface does not display. Pages that define widgets are not visible to non-admins either.
* Semi-automated layout, no need for page building plugins. Presence of sidebar widgets controls the layout logically.
* Page loading speed is optimized and scores well on Google Page Speed. Theme CSS and JS files are combined into one file each and minified, automatically refreshing if changes are made to the source files. CSS stylesheet is linked from the head, and JS file in the foot of the page. JS minification is by the bundled JsMin.php file from <https://github.com/searchturbine/phpwee-php-minifier>.
* If the ImageMagick PHP module is installed on the server, uploaded images will be better optimized.
* Meta, OpenGraph and Twitter card tags are supported. Tags are generic on Pages, and individually constructed on Posts from their starting paragraphs and Featured Images.
* "Featured News" and "Samples" sections are supported with custom widgets and shortcodes.
* Contact forms are supported with a shortcode, offering comprehensive control of parameters. May also be used for mailing list subscription forms.

## Image sizes:

Wordpress usual default image sizes, settable by the user on the Media Settings page are: Thumbnail 150px x 150px, Medium 300px x 300px, Large 1024px x 1024px. For best results, the web developer is advised to change Medium to 360px x 360px. QNRWP-A defines and makes available three additional sizes:

* QNRWP-Larger - 1600px width, height proportional
* QNRWP-Largest - 2000px width, height proportional
* QNRWP-Extra - 2500px width, height proportional

The hidden Medium Large size - 768px width, height proportional - is also exposed to the user.

These thumbnail and intermediate versions of images may be regenerated by ticking a checkbox on the Media Settings page. In addition, uploaded originals will be reduced to 2500px width, using higher JPEG quality - half way between its setting on the Media screen and 100.


More details are at the sample site for the theme: <https://www.beholdingeye.com/wp/qnrwp/>.